What is BigData?

Big data is a term that describes the large volume of data – both structured and unstructured – that inundates a
business on a day-to-day basis. But it’s not the amount of data that’s important. It’s what organizations do with
the data that matters.Big data can be analyzed for insights that lead to better decisions and strategic business
moves.

4 V's of BigData:
-----------------
Volume: 
Organizations collect data from a variety of sources, including business transactions, social media and
information from sensor or machine-to-machine data. In the past, storing it would’ve been a problem –
but new technologies (such as Hadoop) have eased the burden.

Velocity:
Data streams in at an unprecedented speed and must be dealt with in a timely manner. 
RFID tags, sensors and smart metering are driving the need to deal with torrents of data in near-real time.

Variety:
Data comes in all types of formats – from structured, numeric data in traditional databases to unstructured 
text documents, email, video, audio, stock ticker data and financial transactions.

Variability:
In addition to the increasing velocities and varieties of data, data flows can be highly inconsistent with
periodic peaks. Is something trending in social media? Daily, seasonal and event-triggered peak data loads
can be challenging to manage. Even more so with unstructured data.

Importance of Big Data:
-----------------------
The importance of big data doesn’t revolve around how much data you have, but what you do with it.
You can take data from any source and analyze it to find answers that enable 1) cost reductions, 
2) time reductions, 3) new product development and optimized offerings, and 
4) smart decision making. When you combine big data with high-powered analytics, 
you can accomplish business-related tasks such as:

  -->Determining root causes of failures, issues and defects in near-real time.
  -->Generating coupons at the point of sale based on the customer’s buying habits.
  -->Recalculating entire risk portfolios in minutes.
  -->Detecting fraudulent behavior before it affects your organization.

Big data in action: UPS
-----------------------

    As a company with many pieces and parts constantly in motion, UPS stores a large amount of data – 
much of which comes from sensors in its vehicles. That data not only monitors daily performance, 
but also triggered a major redesign of UPS drivers' route structures. 
The initiative was called ORION (On-Road Integration Optimization and Navigation), 
and was arguably the world's largest operations research project. 
It relied heavily on online map data to reconfigure a driver's pickups and drop-offs in real time.
  The project led to savings of more than 8.4 million gallons of fuel by cutting 85 million miles off
of daily routes. UPS estimates that saving only one daily mile per driver saves the company $30 million,
so the overall dollar savings are substantial.

